# intelligent-enterprise-platform
An enterprise platform for workforce transformed by a multi-agent architecture.

Basic architecture of the platform:
1. Data Layer:
   At this layer, we have the following systems of record which represent domain specific systems that different domain / system teams own.
   1.1. Employee Master (ERP): This is the primary employee system of record that holds all employee details - name, email, date of hire (with history), date of termination (with history), team and manager history, levels and growth history, benefits history, personal details and PII  - address, age, gender, immigration information, marital status, emergency contact information, etc., work location details. 
   1.2. Leave and Attendance: This system holds the attendance information of the employee - what dates and time they attended work, came in to office and their leave history along with balances. The system autoamtically accrues leave balance for employees based on a central policy. 
   1.3. Disability and Accommodations: This system holds the accomodation request history of employees in the form of cases, where employee submits a type of a accommodation request along with documents and then a case manager reviews and makes a decision. It also houses any disability requests in the similar manner.
   1.4. Performance and Feedback: This system holds all the performance and feedback history of the employees - with employee performance reviews, self-inputs, feedback from others, final decisions, growth and compensation.
   1.5. Employee Investigation and Cases: This system holds all types of interactions between HR, Support teams and employees - such as employee queries about policies, leaves, or anything; HR cases about safety, investigations.
   1.6. Training : This system holds a list of various types of trainings - mandatory to optional, career growth vs compliance - such as a career program for product management, or for a solution architect, or for a data engineer, to mandatory data security trainings. 
   1.7. Policy Central: A database that stores all policies of the company with all version history. Different teams and organizations define their policies - such as what is a job role and level expectation, how a performance review must be conducted, compensations, growth, when does an employee qulaify for termination - what are the kinds of incidents that can lead to termination along with rehire consequcences based on severity, leave accrual policy (how many hours per 15 days, what types of leaves - sick, paid, floating), leave approval and denial policy, leaves based on national leaves in the country of operation, workign hours, work expectation, processes and SOPs for a support or HR person to review employee requests from leaves to accommodations, disability, or any other questions, per diems and reimbursements limits. Basically all employee and HR policies.

   Data Lake: Separately there is a data lake that exists which is not a part of this specific platform but it is a central data mart for various system teams to vend their data for reporting purposes. Each system has their own data schemas, data refresh rates based on the user needs who use their data for reports. 

2. Abstraction Layer:
   APIs: At this layer, we have multiple system specific APIs that can be used by the user experience layer. Some APIs directly source data from the systems such as systems 1.3 and 1.5 don't have APIs that can provide real-time data. Instead they obtain data from a data lake where the systems upload their data every 24 hours as part of a pre-defined / scheduled job. The data lake is owned and maintained by a central BI team who is responsible for ensuring data pipelines are working well, the data is transformed and saved, data is made available for various types of reporting which happens in a completely different enterprise systsm and used by all types of employees - from HR, to employees to leaders and maangers.
   User Authentication and IAM: This is a module which defines various permission groups, policies and is a gateway for all transactions that happen via APIs or simply abstraction layer. The system records user groups with one or more employees, with a user group name, and then associates the system and transaction (operation) type scope - Managers group can only access employee's performance data in the performance system but cannot write i.e read or view only. Another group - HRs can only access read view of employee disability and accommodation cases without access to medical documents or attachments but another group of case managers within disbaility and accommodations have complete read write and delete access to the data. The authentication can happen down to an API's attribute level so that a system may prevent an employee manager from seeing the medical history of an employee. 

3. User Experience:
   At this layer, we have the platform UX. The platform UX houses a homepage for each user who is allowed to login using the SSO of their company and then the user authenticaion module. The dashboard shows the users a list of their open cases or tasks to work on, tasks that are new, or late. An HR can view a list of all employees who they support and have come to work today, list of all employees who are low on leave balance or list of employees terminated in last 1 month. The HR can also deep dive into an employee profile page that pulls all the data pertaining to the employee from various undelying systems from data layers and shows each system data in their own unique manner that meets the usecase needs. Such as case view is a more case management view whereas a leave balance is like a leave balance ledger - credits and debits.
The HR user can view employee attributes based on their access and perform actions based on their access.
Each system's data is housed within micro-front ends that each domain/system team owns and maintains since they are specialists in knowing what data and how their users want to use it.

The employee facing UX allows employee to see their data - all their history from various systems, reachh out to HR or support for help with anything or track open cases / requests. 

